more countries are joining the emergency
airlift to Gaza Germany has flown an
aircraft over the northern part of the
strip dropping aid from above a military
transporter flew from Jordan parachuting
pallets of humanitarian supplies
including rice and flour donor nations
are increasingly turning to the air and
sea as Israel continues to limit Road
access to the strip the United Nations
warns that a third of children under the
age of two are suffering from
malnutrition in Northern
Gaza and Cyprus has also just said that
a second ship could be on its way as
soon as today well to talk more about
the aid effort Julia sadeli is here with
us um tell us more about these efforts
and whether or not they're going to make
a difference yeah so this was uh the
first much awaited airdrop coming from
Germany they said they'd take part in
this Mission and today was the first
time and these are aircraft that are
being stationed in Jordan and are flying
over to the Gaza Strip and and and
dropping the aid but I I think the
German government is very much aware
that this is just a drop in the ocean
this is not uh the ideal way they
actually want Aid to be coming into Gaza
and can have a listen to what the German
chancellor has said today about
this e visten as you know Germany has
long provided aid for Gaza with our own
financial aid for humanitarian
assistance now we are directly
delivering Aid via airdrops this isn't
the best solution
that would be reopening border crossings
and letting more trucks
across yeah so as we've heard it would
be much preferable for Germany to
actually have uh more Crossings border
crossings opened via land Germany think
this is the best way to actually get Aid
into into Gaza uh and we've um we've
heard that you know they've been calling
for this for months Germany has said
more Aid has to get into Gaza they've
called on the Israeli government to do
more in this direction and if we look at
the bigger context Germany is one of the
biggest uh aid providers uh to Gaza to
contribute it a lot to the un uh relief
organization for Palestinian refugees it
is Big contributor to other un agencies
Germany has increased its Aid uh to Gaza
since the October 7 attacks but what
we've seen for example since um the U
unra has come
under uh some allegations Germany has
stopped its Aid uh deliveries and its
contributions to unan this has also
restricted how Germany can try to get
Aid into the strip now the German
Chancellor is heading to Jordan uh for
talks what what's he aiming to achieve
there yeah he's going to Jordan and then
also going to Israel but the German
government has been uh in close contact
with a lot of Partners in the region
because it wants to bring them on board
and sort of have uh one kind of uh
common approach to to the crisis there
uh it has been spare headed by an abok
the foreign minister who has traveled to
the region uh quite a lot and on the one
hand it is the issue of humanitarian Aid
they want to push for more to get in for
example there has been a concrete
proposal coming from Germany for Israel
to allow the port of ashod to uh take in
Aid to then be delivered to Gaza but one
other issue is that uh Germany and
Schulz has said he wants to push for a
humanitarian pause in the strip uh to
allow more humanitarian Aid to come in
but also to possibly release the Israeli
hostages that are being held by Hamas in
the strip but he also wants to have a
broader conversation about the future of
the region and wants to push the
two-state solution which is what Germany
thinks is the only way forward for a
lasting peace in the region but so far
we haven't really seen much of progress
Julia it's unfortunate but thank you for
bringing us up to date on all those
details